Hey guys welcome back to the chorus.
So we've talked about some goals for creating content improving branding and increasing engagement.
Now let's get to one of the goals.
Many people obsess over.
That's conversions.
Conversion is when a reader or web site visit or takes a specific action kind of covered this before
those actions can be measured on dashboards or on platforms.
And to some people they indicate how successful you are at whatever you do it's a yardstick so to speak.
And it's called a conversion usually because you are converting a user from one kind of status to another
set of a prospect and our client set up a lead there now a paying customer.
So what are some examples of conversions.
Well number one when someone orders a product on your website that's a conversion or two when someone
signs up for your e-mail newsletter that's a conversion as well.
Number three conversions can also be inquiries through a contact form event registrations click through
on an e-mail or votes in a survey.
We usually just end up calling those leads.
Now each conversion is different but you can see how important they are especially because some of these
involve real money buying a product activating a membership renewing a service you've been collecting
donations.
These are all conversions that involve money changing hands.
Our goal here is to figure out how you can write content to make those conversions happen well before
you write anything you need to have your goals clearly in mind when you create your blog post or web
site pages as you create each piece of your content including the headlines the page copy especially
the calls to action.
You need to always work towards the goal you're trying to achieve.
Kind of goes without saying the reason you won't your goals clearly in mind is so you know if you're
succeeding or not.
Now a great way to evaluate this is by just doing basic AB testing.
Other people call it split testing but the idea is that you take two versions of the same page that
you've made make a tweak to the language or the call to action the color of the button or whatever and
see which one performs better.
Now there are a few tools you can use to do this but Google Analytics actually has a feature built and
called experiments that can help you do this for free.
So it is an important requirement for your content if you're trying to get them to convert.
Well you need to make people trust you if you don't trust the Web site you're on then you're never going
to click the buy now button or give them your personal data.
Not even to email you a newsletter.
Building trust requires that you have a Web site that doesn't look shady and works as expected.
That's a place where your designers and developers have to do their job.
But assuming you have a website that looks good and works well then the trust part is really up to you
as a writer of the blog posts and web pages.
You have to write content that can be trusted.
For example do you make any claims that you need to back them up.
You can cite data that supports your product like people have saved 50 percent on expenses when they
use our app.
Then if that's true you have to show a chart or at least some data or feature a quote from a client
saying that if you write about your dozens of satisfied clients then link to a page on your site that
maybe list them out or a page that includes some testimonials from them it's not enough to just say
it.
If you blog about how important a new feature of your product is don't just say it's important.
Show a video of a customer using it or linked to another blog post it breaks down how it works.
So when you have a conversion in mind like getting people to register for webinars for example you need
to make people believe through the content you create that it's not only valuable but trust worthy enough
for them to go through with that conversion.
No other way to get a conversion is to help the reader eliminate the competition from the picture.
When we're thinking about buying a product or downloading some kind of app we usually consider alternatives
to find the best one especially if we know we're going to have to spend money we don't want to have
to buy the wrong thing.
So in order to make the right decision we do research that might include looking for posts that help
us compare multiple products like five web hosts for your e-commerce Web site or the pros and cons of
cloud based file backup services.
Now you can wait for bloggers to cover you or the media to do your review.
But if you can write that post comparing yourself to the competition.
Well it does two things.
First it allows you to tell the story rather than someone else.
And sure it'll be biased because you wrote it but if you write trustworthy content like we talked about
earlier back up your claims probably believe it.
So include some proof of your claims and be transparent when necessary but put any negatives in context
like yes may only cost more than the competition but that's because their service is better.
And we have more features etc. etc..
And secondly if you write that story in posts on your site it means that they might not go to the competitors
site for similar information.
The reader is one step closer to buying as long as you can convince them that your stuff is indeed better
than someone else's.
Now here's an example.
Remember help scout.
Well housecarl knows that they have a few key competitors out there Zendesk is one of them.
So help us out create a page on their site specifically to explain how they compare to the big bad desk
what are the goals of the page is to clearly convert Zendesk users to help scout users because it includes
price comparisons a way to import data from Zendesk to help scout.
That's dirty and explains a lot of its key features.
The best part of the page though is a video with the help scout client describing why they SWIP shrugs
and desk to help scout.
Those are some fighting words.
So basically helps got to saying here all these reasons why you should go with us but if you can't take
our word for it here's someone that actually switched and is very happy about it.
It's a great piece of content and you can bet they get convergence like sign ups or inquiries because
of it.
This might be a good spot to pause for a snack and consider your own conversions.
So if you have competitors trying to get the same people you are.
Think about one of your main competitors and it is ask yourself Could you write a post that's basically
like the top five reasons we're better than our competitor.
Do you know your competitor well enough to do that.
Some differences like price or feature set could be obvious but there might be some other differences
you haven't thought of yet.
So take a patient help Scout's book and maybe ask some of your customers.
Have any of them used your competitors product or service before.
If so why did they switch.
This kind of detail can really make for great content to help eliminate the competition for other people's
minds.
OK.
Another strategy to help you get more conversions is to appeal to people's egos.
Yes their egos.
Lots of companies love to feature customer success stories on testimonials on their blogs.
For example there's a box of box it's kind of like Dropbox but they focus more on businesses.
No not that box box.
It's a huge digital content management platform.
It's an online workspace for collaboration file sharing and all sorts of other kind of stuff for enterprise
people.
So I've got a blog with a whole series of articles on customer stories writing about how companies have
integrated their systems with box or linked clients in the healthcare industry for example who use it
for specific health care purposes.
Well naturally your company gets profiled one of these posts are going to share it with lots of people.
Ok but how do they help with conversions.
Wow.
And the company gets profiled then they share it then their followers will go check it out because of
course they trust the company that got profile.
So they check out the story read about the success and if there's a relevant conversion and they're
like want to see how it all works.
Check out our Web unarm register for this free trial.
The people checking it out are more likely to convert.
Now trust already exists between them and the company they follow.
So you're really just kind of piggybacking on that trust to get the conversion to happen.
And by the way lots of people love free exposure or a chance to interact directly with the company they
like.
So if you want more success story content just put out a call for at the end of each post.
Want to share your story fill out this form.
It's a content type that basically powers itself share one story.
Ask for more.
All the while each post shows that your product works.
Hopefully enticing new people to try or buy it.
Aside from people's egos you can also appeal to their fear of missing out.
Hash tag fumo.
Fear is a legitimate way to make conversions happen.
Writing how awesome an event was with details about sessions and speakers and special guests and all
that is a natural need into a registration form for the next event.
In fact you can literally put phrases like Don't miss out or limited time offer.
It's a sales technique called scarcity where you try to get people interested by making them think that
something will be gone soon.
Whether it's true or not.
So how do you get people to act well.
Tell your readers to set up alerts in their email preferences so they don't miss any messages about
special deals or updates on their product or you can use a third party plug in like literally called
photo made by one of my instructors to create jealousy and compel them to buying all of your stuff.
OK one more way to create conversions and your content is to simply give something away for free.
Kind of like how we talked before with engagement.
Now there are times in selling things and making money or nece are necessary goals but not all of the
time.
Sometimes you want to generate some leads you want more people to email things to or people you can
approach with deals later on to create that trust.
We're always talking about.
Sometimes you have to give them a taste of what you have to offer so maybe you're a web designer or
an agency and every time you work with a client you have a checklist of items or questions you ask them.
It helps you understand their needs and goals and prepares them to work with you.
You can write about this checklist in a blog post.
Turn the checklist into a PTF and put up a form asking people to enter their email if they want to download
it.
Could this content be worth money while.
Perhaps but sometimes giving away value for free can lead to more opportunities later.
People can read the PTF and think oh maybe I should work with them and redo our Web site or they really
know what they're talking about let share this link and recommend them to people we know.
I don't know if they say that but that's what they do.
So we covered a bunch of ways to write content in support of conversions.
Just remember that conversions don't happen you don't have a clear called action.
You need a button or some other mechanism to make it happen.
That's just science right there.
Whatever you write should lead to a form or an e-mail or a button that tries to get the reader to do
what you want them to do.
Is this a design concern.
Sure.
But as a content creator you need to know where that button is.
Sometimes you want to actually call it to the reader's attention like download our checklist at the
end of this post or something like that.
So I know this is all about content but here's a quick rundown of some of the tools you can use for
some current conversion forms you might need.
If you want to build an email subscriber list email platforms like MailChimp and a Weber have tools
and templates for setting up simple subscriber forms you want out of contact or inquiry form.
There's an app called SuBo not to be confused with apps sumo.
It is created by the same person.
Sewel has a bunch of free tools where you can customize a form and then place it anywhere you want on
your blog or site.
You could also add one of those like boxes that shows up and you scroll down the page a little bit and
it slides out very conveniently from the side.
Simo kind of makes a point that you can use this tool to politely ask people to complete the form and
so I can see that this is probably more effective than just having a form pop up out of nowhere.
They have no option to avoid and if you produce videos you can use a tool like Wispa to put lead forms
inside the videos themselves at different points like Enter your email to watch the rest of the video
which I personally hate.
What you can do or you can put it like at the end.
Now are a lot of options you can go there.
All right.
Last thing I swear.
A word of warning about writing for conversions.
Don't get obsessed with them.
Understand that one piece of content will not always earn all the trust people need to convert a lot
of time it takes a bunch of content and visiting other sites and talking to other people so it will
take multiple pieces of content over time.
That being said don't be one of those Web sites where you obnoxiously attack the reader with popovers
informs every step of the way.
Using those techniques is different from actually writing and delivering content with value.
Don't be a jerk.
Write Great stuff and just earn their trust.
All right guys heed my warning and I'll see you in the next lecture.